doc/tutorial.rst, before:

.. Created 18 December 2010. Last updated Sat Sep 14 14:34:40 BST 2013.

Tutorial
========

Example: Completing Partial Latin Squares
-----------------------------------------

A *partial latin square* of :math:`n` is a :math:`n \times n` array with at
most one symbol from :math:`\{1,\ldots,n\}` in every row and every column.

.. math::
    
    \begin{array}{|c|c|c|}
      \hline 1 & . & 3 \\
      \hline 2 & 3 & . \\
      \hline . & 1 & 2 \\ \hline
    \end{array}

To create a partial latin square object we use a dictionary mapping cell labels
to symbols.
     
    >>> import ryser
    >>> P = {(0,0): 1, (0,2): 3, (1,0): 2, (1,1): 3, (2,1): 1, (2,2): 2}
    >>> L = ryser.designs.Latin(P, 3)

Completing a partial latin square means filling the empty cells so that every
row and column has exactly one of every symbol.

Example: Hall Numbers
---------------------

Here is a demo which computes Hall numbers.

    >>> L = ryser.examples.eg3
    >>> L
    |2|1|3|4|.|.|.|.|
    |1|3|2|6|.|.|.|.|
    |3|2|4|1|.|.|.|.|
    |4|6|1|5|.|.|.|.|
    |.|.|.|.|.|1|.|.|
    |.|.|.|.|1|.|.|.|
    |.|.|.|.|.|.|.|2|
    |.|.|.|.|.|.|2|.|
    >>> S = ryser.examples.fail4[0]
    >>> hall_nums = ryser.hall.numbers(L, S)
    >>> sym_hall_nums = ryser.hall.symmetric_numbers(L, S)
    >>> print "Hall Numbers: {}".format(hall_nums)
    Hall Numbers: [0, 1, 3, 3, 4, 4, 4, 4]
    >>> print "Symmetric Hall Numbers: {}".format(sym_hall_nums)
    Symmetric Hall Numbers: [0, 1, 2, 2, 3, 3, 4, 4]

Test Hall inequalities.

    >>> ryser.hall.inequality_on_cells(L, S)
    True
    >>> ryser.hall.symmetric_inequality_on_cells(L, S)
    False

Commit message:

Implemented completion of PLS via Vizing.

doc/tutorial.rst, after:

.. Created 18 December 2010. Last updated Sat Sep 14 19:06:50 BST 2013.

Tutorial
========

Example: Completing Partial Latin Squares
-----------------------------------------

A *partial latin square* of :math:`n` is a :math:`n \times n` array with at
most one symbol from :math:`\{1,\ldots,n\}` in every row and every column.

.. math::
    
    \begin{array}{|c|c|c|}
      \hline 1 & . & 3 \\
      \hline 2 & 3 & . \\
      \hline . & 1 & 2 \\ \hline
    \end{array}

To create a partial latin square object we use a dictionary mapping cell labels
to symbols.
     
    >>> import ryser
    >>> P = {1: 1, 3: 3, 4: 2, 5: 3, 8: 1, 9: 2}
    >>> L = ryser.designs.Latin(P, 3)
    >>> L
    |1|.|3|
    |2|3|.|
    |.|1|2|

Completing a partial latin square means filling the empty cells so that every
row and column has exactly one of every symbol. In Ryser completion of partial
latin squares is handled by the `completion.complete` function.

    >>> ryser.completion.complete(L)
    |1|2|3|
    |2|3|1|
    |3|1|2|

Example: Hall Numbers
---------------------

Here is a demo which computes Hall numbers.

    >>> L = ryser.examples.eg3
    >>> L
    |2|1|3|4|.|.|.|.|
    |1|3|2|6|.|.|.|.|
    |3|2|4|1|.|.|.|.|
    |4|6|1|5|.|.|.|.|
    |.|.|.|.|.|1|.|.|
    |.|.|.|.|1|.|.|.|
    |.|.|.|.|.|.|.|2|
    |.|.|.|.|.|.|2|.|
    >>> S = ryser.examples.fail4[0]
    >>> hall_nums = ryser.hall.numbers(L, S)
    >>> sym_hall_nums = ryser.hall.symmetric_numbers(L, S)
    >>> print "Hall Numbers: {}".format(hall_nums)
    Hall Numbers: [0, 1, 3, 3, 4, 4, 4, 4]
    >>> print "Symmetric Hall Numbers: {}".format(sym_hall_nums)
    Symmetric Hall Numbers: [0, 1, 2, 2, 3, 3, 4, 4]

Test Hall inequalities.

    >>> ryser.hall.inequality_on_cells(L, S)
    True
    >>> ryser.hall.symmetric_inequality_on_cells(L, S)
    False
